in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of azure
firewall
now those network security groups we
previously talked about understand layer
4. they understand the idea of tcp and
udp they understand ports they don't
understand any higher level application
protocols like http https fully
qualified domain names urls with paths
in them so it can't give me any
protection from those and because it
doesn't understand those concepts it
can't maybe give me protection from
different categories like news or
gambling or other things
so azure firewall is a first-party
azure network virtual appliance so i can
think about hey
we have this azure
firewall
this is fully managed
it auto scales based on the demands it
needs and it fully understands all of
those layer 7 concepts we talk about but
it also understands a basic layer 4. now
the way this works is remember we have
our virtual network
so we have that virtual network
and we have those various subnets so
azure firewall deploys into its own
subnet
so i'm going to have this azure
firewall
subnet that's what it's going to be
called
and it's the only thing that gets
installed into there and then all of the
other subnets you have in your
virtual network and even connected
virtual networks we're going to use
something called user defined routes to
say hey when you're trying to talk to
something i actually want you to go via
this
as your next hop so we're going to
direct things to go to the firewall
using user defined routes
so now the traffic is going to this
azure firewall and what we can do is a
number of different things
because it understands layer 7
we have things like application rules
so an application rule can understand
hey a url
it can understand a fully qualified
domain name it can understand categories
and i can allow or block those things
it's also layer four so i can still have
network rules
just like
the idea of an nsg i'm basing it around
ip addresses and ports and things like
that
so i can do both of those levels now
there are different versions of azure
firewall there is a premium skew
and one of the great things the premium
sku does is often our traffic is
encrypted it's tls encrypted which means
we can't read it we can't even see the
path because when i have tls encryption
it's between the basic ip addresses you
can't even see the path of what's being
sent or requested
so one of the things azure firewall can
do is with the premium sku
it can actually do tls inspection
it sits in between
and it replaces certificate so it can
now read that encrypted traffic it can
see the urls it could then work out the
categories to give me protection even if
that traffic is encrypted
now the other thing it can do it has dna
type rules so i could think about well
there's public ip addresses
that belong to azure firewall so as
requests come in it can actually do
denating so dnatting is where it can say
hey
you're coming into this particular port
i'm going to send you to a particular
virtual machine maybe that's useful for
rdp or ssh or other things i want to be
able to get to a particular machine but
it can still apply these rules to
control who can actually go and access
that
i mean there's a whole set of different
functionalities around azure firewall
but the point is this is an actual edge
device it's an actual set of virtual
machines that uses vm scale sets behind
the scenes but it's fully managed
i am not doing anything around this
it does auto scale
based on the actual demands of the
amount of traffic that's coming in and i
would pay accordingly
but now it is actually some device that
sits at the edge and can send the
traffic out and let it come in
for my network and i would use this with
nsgs i would still use network security
groups
to maybe do other types of internal
protection because i think remember that
defense in depth this is very much a
perimeter type solution but i still want
that least kind of privileged least
access
as much as i can so it's not do i use
this or nsgs i'd like to use them
together to really maximize my layers of
protection